# TAGLINE

creates Perl extension module skeletons

# TLDR

**Create an XS module skeleton without AutoLoader**

```h2xs -A -n [Module::Name]```

**Create a module skeleton from a C header file**

```h2xs -n [Module::Name] [header.h]```

**Create a pure Perl module (no XS code)**

```h2xs -AX -n [Module::Name]```

**Create a module and drop a C function name prefix from Perl bindings**

```h2xs -n [Module::Name] -p [prefix_] [header.h]```

# SYNOPSIS

**h2xs** [_options_] [_headerfile_ ...] [_extra_libraries_]

# PARAMETERS

_HEADERFILE_
> One or more C header files to parse for `#define` constants and function declarations.

_EXTRA_LIBRARIES_
> Extra libraries to link against, in the form `-lm -lposix`, optionally with `-L/path` to add search directories.

**-n**, **--name**=_MODULE_NAME_
> Specify the name for the extension, e.g. `RPC::DCE`. If omitted, the name of the first header file (capitalised) is used.

**-A**, **--omit-autoload**
> Omit all AutoLoader facilities. Removes `use AutoLoader` from the .pm file and implies `-c`.

**-X**, **--omit-XS**
> Omit the XS portion and generate a skeleton pure Perl module. Implies `-c` and `-f`.

**-c**, **--omit-constant**
> Omit `constant()` from the .xs file and the corresponding `AUTOLOAD` from the .pm file.

**-O**, **--overwrite-ok**
> Allow an existing extension directory to be overwritten.

**-b**, **--compat-version**=_VERSION_
> Generate a .pm file backwards-compatible with the specified Perl version (e.g. `5.005_03`). Versions below 5.6.0 avoid `our` and `use warnings`.

**-B**, **--beta-version**
> Use an alpha/beta-style version number (`0.00_01`) instead of `0.01`.

**-C**, **--omit-changes**
> Omit creation of the `Changes` file and add a `HISTORY` section to the POD template instead.

**-F**, **--cpp-flags**=_FLAGS_
> Additional flags to pass to the C preprocessor when scanning headers. Also written into the generated `Makefile.PL`.

**-M**, **--func-mask**=_REGEX_
> Select only functions and macros whose names match the given regular expression.

**-P**, **--omit-pod**
> Omit the autogenerated stub POD section.

**-a**, **--gen-accessors**
> Generate accessor methods for each element of structs and unions found in the header.

**-d**, **--debugging**
> Turn on debugging messages.

**-e**, **--omit-enums**[=_REGEX_]
> Skip constants defined in C enumerations. If a regex is given, skip only enums whose names match it.

**-f**, **--force**
> Allow creating an extension for a header that is not found in standard include directories.

**-g**, **--global**
> Include code for safely storing static data in the .xs file.

**-k**, **--omit-const-func**
> For function arguments declared as `const`, omit the `const` attribute in the generated XS code.

**-m**, **--gen-tied-var**
> (Experimental) Declare Perl variables magically tied to C variables of the same name.

**-o**, **--opaque-re**=_REGEX_
> Treat C types matched by the regex as opaque data types even if they appear in typemaps. Use with `-x`.

**-p**, **--remove-prefix**=_PREFIX_
> Remove the given prefix from Perl function names (e.g. `-p sec_rgy_`).

**-s**, **--const-subs**=_SUB1_,_SUB2_
> Create Perl subroutines for the specified macros (assumed `char *` return type) rather than using the `constant()` mechanism.

**-t**, **--default-type**=_TYPE_
> Internal type used by `constant()` for macros. Defaults to `IV` (signed integer).

**-v**, **--version**=_VERSION_
> Set the version number for the extension. Defaults to `0.01` (or `0.00_01` with `-B`).

**-x**, **--autogen-xsubs**
> Automatically generate XSUBs from function declarations in the header. Requires the `C::Scan` module.

**--skip-exporter**
> Do not use `Exporter` or export any symbols.

**--skip-ppport**
> Do not use `Devel::PPPort` (disables portability to older Perl versions).

**--skip-autoloader**
> Do not use `AutoLoader`, but keep the `constant()` function and `AUTOLOAD` sub for constants.

**--skip-strict**
> Do not add `use strict` to the generated module.

**--skip-warnings**
> Do not add `use warnings` to the generated module.

**--use-new-tests**
> When `-b` is in effect, generate tests using `Test::More` rather than the older `Test` module.

**--use-old-tests**
> Force generation of tests using the older `Test` module.

**-h**, **-?**, **--help**
> Print usage and version information and exit.

# DESCRIPTION

**h2xs** builds a Perl extension skeleton from C header files. It generates XS code to wrap C libraries, making their constants and functions accessible from Perl, along with a `Makefile.PL`, `.pm` module file, `.xs` file, and test stubs.

If no module name is supplied with `-n`, the name of the first header file is used with its first character capitalised. Extra libraries needed at link time can be appended on the command line in the form `-lm -lposix`, optionally with `-L/path` to add a library search directory.

The tool can also create a skeleton pure Perl module (no XS) by using the `-X` flag.

# CAVEATS

Generated code frequently needs manual customisation. Complex C APIs (function pointers, arrays, non-integer types) require hand-editing of the XS file and typemap. The `-x` option requires the `C::Scan` CPAN module to be installed.

# HISTORY

**h2xs** has been part of **Perl** since version 5, providing the standard way to create XS extension modules.

# SEE ALSO

[h2ph](/man/h2ph)(1), [perl](/man/perl)(1), [perldoc](/man/perldoc)(1)
